Break things in production, on purpose.
Why would one ever do this?
Well, if your systems are supposed to handle failures,
shouldn't they handle them?
If they can handle them,
why would it be bad to periodically test this?
Would you put more effort and be more diligent if
you knew with 100 percent certainty that
critical services would be tested for
resilience in production at the peak of your traffic?
Chaos Engineering is unique discipline.
It involves creating faults to prove readiness.
If you go to a team who owns a particular system and tell them that
you are going to randomly terminate some of their EC2 instances,
what would their reaction be?
What should their reaction be?
If systems are truly fault tolerant,
it literally should not be a problem to cause faults.
If people are attesting to the resiliency of their application,
then there should be no worry in causing faults in individual components.
Let's circle back to the example of the database running out of disk space.
In this simple case,
the usage pattern was normal and the database just ran out of disk space over time.
How would you prevent this?
Often, you want multiple levels of alerts.
You need to examine your own use case to decide what is appropriate.
But you always want to get some warning from
a data source that is approaching a point where more disk space will be needed.
This warning does not need to wake anyone up.
It can be an e-mail that triggers well in
advance so that the problem can be avoided without service interruption,
but also without panic.
How far ahead do you want this alert to trigger?
How much time do you need to plan a non-urgent maintenance event?
Even after this warning event,
you'll want to set the wake up people
alert before the database completely runs out of disk space.
Again, why wait until things are actively broken
when things can be alerted on with some time to avoid any downtime.
The level for warning and urgent alerts are up to you.
You'll need to understand your business needs,
your SLAs, and your platform to know what appropriate values are.